---
layout: post
title: "Step.1 How to create a new DPS-Agents oriented project with version-1.7"
author: "Aguayo-Canela, F.J.<br><small>Department of Electrical and Systems Engineering and Automation (2012-17)<br>School of Industrial Engineering and Information Technology. <b>University of Leon</b> (SPAIN)</small>"
date: 2019-09-05 14:15:56:49 +0100
ref: v17_example01
categories: version-1.7-(eumas)
lang: en
---







>  **_Abstract:_**  This document details the process of creating a new agent-oriented application environment. The version **v1.7** of the dpsFrameworkBuilder-1.7.jar installer is used. The document also shows, which are the most recommended previous and subsequent steps to perform during the creation of this new agent-oriented application environment, so the Developer or Architects of the application, can verify _a-priori_ that all the replicas of the new application and DPS-Agents present in them, will be able to allow communication between those agents through the remote servers managed by the JADE Platform.


**Keywords:** 

JADE platform, Agent-Oriented-Applications.


<br>



## Process Enumeration



<br>

<hr>{:width="256px" align="center"}


**1. Objective**: Obtain a copy of the **dpsFrameworkBuilder-1.7.jar**.

**Process**:
1.  Download version v1.7 of the environment installer. (Start - Menu - Downloads - v1.7 dpsFramework installer).
1.       File name: dpsFrameworkBuilder-1.7.jar Size = 22038492.

-  _Shortcut_: Access to <https://github.com/dpsframework/dpsFrameworkBuilder/releases>



<br>



<hr>{:width="256px" align="center"}


**2. Objective**: To create the basic structure of a new agent-oriented application called **Avalon** that will be used for the translation of old texts. That new application will use agent-technology to specialize and distribute on different servers the calculation load generated by the translation of the books.

**Process**:

1. Check the Java / openJDK version of the server / laptop ...
1. Incorporate the environment variables of the terminal's Work-session.
1. Create a directory (e.g. **~/ apps/**) and, move to it the dpsFrameworkBuilder-1.7.jar file.
1. Generate a new agent-oriented application called **Avalon**.


         $  java -version
         $  export CLASSPATH=./*:lib/*:

         Note that:  on Ms-Windows:   set CLASSPATH=./*;lib/*; 
         -----------------------------------

    
         $ cd ~ 
         $ mkdir apps
         $ mv ~/Downloads/dspFrameworkBuilder-1.7.jar   apps/.
         $ cd apps
     
         $ java -jar dspFrameworkBuilder-1.7.jar

         Shorcut: it's also possible...
         -----------------------------------
          
         $ java framework -h
         $ java framework --help  (verbose)


         Create the application skeleton:
         ----------------------------------- 
         $ java framework new Avalon
         $ cd Avalon


         Note that: 
         -----------------------------------

         $    (the directory  ./Avalon/var/doc/ is only for help documents).

       

<br>


<hr>{:width="256px" align="center"}
**3. Objective**: Start the operation checks of the application replica just created.

**Process:**

1. Check the launch function. (**launcher**).
1. Check the skeleton generation function of new DPS-Agents. (**generate**).
1. Check the command shell function of the new application environment. (**shell**).



         $  java launcher

         $  java launcher --help

         $  java generate

         $  java shell



<br>

<hr>{:width="256px" align="center"}
**4. Objective**: Start the functional checks of the different Shell from the replica of the application.

**Process**:

1. Check CLIPS inference engine.
1. Check JESS inference engine.
1. Check JAVA interpreter connected to JADE.
1. Check database access through HSQL interpreter



        $  java shell clips
           CLIPS> (exit)

        $  java shell jess
           Jess> (exit)

        $  java shell java
           [dpsFramework://Avalon/]#  > System.exit(0);

        $  java shell hsql 
           sql> \q





<br>

<hr>{:width="256px" align="center"}
**5. Objective**: Register new DPS-Agents belonging to this replica of the application. It seems appropriate to create at least five specialized DPS-Agents in text analysis. Of which 3 of them will use an application developed in CLIPS to reach inventories on the scanned printed material. And two others use a Jess application that connects to a pre-established Ontology to order documents and books. It will also take several DPS-Agents in charge of establishing and maintaining migration processes of the heaviest Agents, to servers managed by the JADE Platform to distribute the processing load. These agents are known as DPS-Agents-Monitor, because that is their most prominent function. Create at least 2 agents type Monitor.

**Process**:

1. Register in this replica of the Avalon application, five agents of type **DPS-Agent-Node** to handle translations and load through the CLIPS or the Jess Rule-Based Expert Systems applications in their execution spaces.

1. Register in this replica of the Avalon application, two agents type Monitor.



        $  java generate -n=Analizador200,Analizador202,Analizador204  -t=node

        $  java generate -n=Clasificador110,Clasificador210  -t=node

        $  java generate -n=Monitor400,Monitor404,Monitor408 -t=monitor

        Note:  Please, have a look at
               ./nodes/ estructure. 
        ------------------------------------

        $  ls -la nodes/





<br>


<hr>{:width="256px" align="center"}
**6. Objective**: Check that the configuration file of this replica of the Avalon application has the complete list of the requested Agents.

**Process**:

1. Check the Avalon replica properties file.


         $ cat config / framework.properties

- **Shortcut**: You can/should be edited by hand this file, in the case of hundreds of agents in the same replica.
- It is also possible to run `java generate -n = $ {value} -t = node`  within a system script, and thus generate the storage structure of hundreds of DPS-Agents in a single step.



<br>

<hr>{:width="256px" align="center"}

**7. Objective**: Launch the JADE platform and incorporate successively the agents of this replica to it, so that the CONTAINERS, simulate remote servers. 

**Process**:

1. Launch JADE
1. Launch 2 text analysis agents with CLIPS engines connected. (one after another)
1. Launch the third of the text analysis agents in Debug mode.
1. Launch 2 document sorting agents with Jess engines connected.
1. Launch all Monitoring agents simultaneously.



        $  java launcher
        $  java launcher --help

        $  java launcher platform &

        $  java launcher node localhost Analizador200  CLIPS & 
        $  java launcher node localhost Analizador202  CLIPS & 

        $  java launcher stage-node localhost Analizador204 CLIPS &

        $  java launcher node localhost Clasificador110  Jess & 
        $  java launcher node localhost Clasificador210  Jess & 

        $  java launcher all-monitors localhost &


-  Close the JADE platform or, gradually close each Agent using the exit button or by typing **exit();** from their respective JADE-Shell command-line console.


